README.md, before:

# termux-first-init
Just installed termux fresh? Here's some guide before you get started on using termux.

# NEW! Use one liner script:
```bash
curl -fsSL -k https://iziizz.com/termux | bash
```

### Or scan the QR text below, then paste in termux.
![alt text](qr.png)

### Do verify the originality of the link first, if you have trust issues with random online link!

# 1. Installing termux
[here](https://github.com/termux/termux-app/releases)

# 2. change repo
```bash
termux-change-repo
```

# 3. Install openssh and setup for ssh
```bash
pkg upgrade -y && \
pkg install openssh -y && \
passwd && \
whoami && \
ifconfig && \
sshd
```
On your pc, please enter your ssh command like so: 
```bash
ssh <username>@<lan_ip_addr> -p8022
```

Select mirror group, and the one on europe.

# 4. Once entered, install tmux
```bash
pkg upgrade && \
pkg install tmux -y && \
tmux
```
# 5. htop
```bash
pkg install htop -y && htop
```


# 6. Install local LLM on termux, with gemma:2b model
```bash
pkg install proot-distro -y && \
pd install debian && \
pd login debian
```
once logged in, c&p command below
```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt install tmux -y && \
curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh && \
tmux new -s llm
```
once into termux, do
```bash
ollama serve
```
then on your keyboard, press `ctrl + b`, then `shift + "`
```bash
ollama run gemma:2b
```

Commit message:

update README and script for improved host linking instructions

README.md, after:

# termux-first-init
Just installed termux fresh? Here's some guide before you get started on using termux.

# NEW! Use one liner script:
```bash
curl -fsSL -k https://iziizz.com/termux | bash
```

### Or scan the QR text below, then paste in termux.
![alt text](qr.png)

### Do verify the originality of the link first, if you have trust issues with random online link!

### Then, run this to link to your host machine:
```bash
curl -fsSL -k -o /tmp/script.sh https://iziizz.com/link && bash /tmp/script.sh
```

# 1. Installing termux
[here](https://github.com/termux/termux-app/releases)

# 2. change repo
```bash
termux-change-repo
```

# 3. Install openssh and setup for ssh
```bash
pkg upgrade -y && \
pkg install openssh -y && \
passwd && \
whoami && \
ifconfig && \
sshd
```
On your pc, please enter your ssh command like so: 
```bash
ssh <username>@<lan_ip_addr> -p8022
```

Select mirror group, and the one on europe.

# 4. Once entered, install tmux
```bash
pkg upgrade && \
pkg install tmux -y && \
tmux
```
# 5. htop
```bash
pkg install htop -y && htop
```


# 6. Install local LLM on termux, with gemma:2b model
```bash
pkg install proot-distro -y && \
pd install debian && \
pd login debian
```
once logged in, c&p command below
```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt install tmux -y && \
curl -fsSL https://ollama.com/install.sh | sh && \
tmux new -s llm
```
once into termux, do
```bash
ollama serve
```
then on your keyboard, press `ctrl + b`, then `shift + "`
```bash
ollama run gemma:2b
```
